So let's talk about unpacking tuples.
Earlier in this section, when we were
looking at lists, I bound several
variables to the same value, using a
single assignment. So let's have a go at
doing something similar. So we're going
to create a new Python file - I'm going
to call it unpacking.
The code was something like this in that previous
section: a = b = c = d = e = f = 12.
Then we'll print the value of c.
All six variables are now
bound to the same value - 12 in this case.
If we run the program now, we just want to
confirm that c has the value 12, and we
can see that is the case on screen. So
that's a useful shortcut, or shorthand,
for typing in the full amount of
code. It also makes it easier to make
changes, without the risk that you'd
forget to change one of the variables.
Let's say that the value of 12 needs to
be changed, for whatever reason. With the
assignment all in one line, as we've got on
line one, we only need to make the change
in one place, so we change the value of
12 to 42. If we'd used six separate
assignments, I'd have to make the change
in six places. Python also lets us bind
several variables to different values. In
fact, we've already done that, when we
looked at the enumerate function, earlier.
So let's start, now, with a simple example,
before we go back and look at
that enumerate code. So down on line 4,
I'm going to type x comma y equals 1
comma 2. Let's print out the value of x,
and also the value of y. So run the
program, and we can see there, that x is bound
to the value 1 and y is bound to the
value 2. And you're not restricted to just two values.
We could add z if we wanted to,
there, as well. So put a comma z there,
and also add the value 76.
Let's do that and print out z.
Run - we also get 76 printed out. So this
is called unpacking a tuple and is very
useful in all sorts of situations.
Looking at that code on line four,
those three values on the right hand side,
look suspiciously like a tuple.
That's because they are a tuple. Let's write
that code differently. So I'm going to
type on line 9, print parentheses double
quotes, unpacking a tuple. Line 11, I'm
going to type data equals 1 comma 2
comma 76 - just a comment here, that
data represents a tuple. Then on
the next time we're gonna type x, y, z
is equal to data. Then we can print
out the values of x, y and z and I'll
just take a copy of those three lines,
that we used previously, and paste them
down here. Run the program, and we should
see we get the same output. And you can
see that is the case. On line 12, the
three variables, x y and z, get each of the
values from the data tuple. Data on the
right hand side, is bound to a tuple.
We did that on line 11. The three variables
on the left hand side also look like a tuple,
but they're not. They're three
separate variables, that each get a value
from the data tuple. You can't have a
tuple on the left of an assignment,
because tuples, if you recall, are
immutable. Alright, so we'll finish this
lecture with the second advantage of
using a tuple. When I used the phrase,
unpacking a tuple, a few moments ago, I
didn't mention that you can unpack any
sequence type. Let's see an example of
that. On line 17, I'm going to type print
parentheses double quotes, Unpacking a
list. And the code itself, we're going to type
data_list is equal to, in
square brackets, it's going to be 12, 13,  14
in the square brackets, and
on the next line, I'm going to type p, q, r
equals data_ list. Let's print put the values of p, q and r.
on lines 21 to 23. So data_list, on line 19,
is a list. It contains three items and
we can unpack them into three variables,
as we're doing here; p, q and r. That's on
line 20. Run the program and let's
confirm that that works. You can see
that's working fine, so we can unpack
the values from any sequence type. But
lists are mutable, so if something
changes the list, our code will break. You
might create a list in one part of your
code, then attempt to unpack it in
another part. If you append another item
to the list before then, the code will
crash. We can demonstrate that quite
easily. Let's add some code. We'll add it
down here, on line 20. So I'm gonna type
data_list.append, and in parentheses, 15,
and put a space there for readability purposes. Now if we run this,
it's crashed, as you can see. So the error
happened on line 22, and it actually says,
too many values to unpack, expected
3. Line 22 is where we tried to
unpack the list into three variables, but
the list now contains four items and our
code crashed, as a result. If we'd used a
tuple instead of a list, that couldn't happen,
and the reason for that is tuples
are immutable and you can't append items to a tuple.
These examples have been very simple,
and don't really show just how useful
unpacking a tuple might be. I'll stop
the video here and in the next video,
we'll see some more practical
applications for unpacking tuples.
See you in the next video.